downloads/index.md, before:

---
title: Downloads
---

## Stable versions

|Summary|File|
|---------|
|Liblouis|[liblouis-3.6.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/download/v3.6.0/liblouis-3.6.0.tar.gz)|
|Liblouis (Windows build)|[liblouis-3.6.0-win32.zip](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/download/v3.6.0/liblouis-3.6.0-win32.zip)|
|Liblouisutdml|[liblouisutdml-2.7.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml/archive/v2.7.0.tar.gz)|
{: .table}


## Development versions

### Pre-built

Nightly builds of Liblouis pre-compiled for Windows:

|Summary|File|
|---------|
|Liblouis nightly build (Windows 32 bit)|[liblouis-win32-*.zip](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/tag/snapshot)|
{: .table}

### Source code

Up-to-date versions can be checked out directly from the source code repositories.

|Summary|Source code repository|
|---------|
|Liblouis|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis.git>|
|Liblouisutdml|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml.git>|
{: .table}

## Old versions

Refer to the github releases pages for old versions of liblouis and liblouisutdml.

|Summary|Github releases page|
|---------|
|Liblouis|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases>|
|Liblouisutdml|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml/releases>|
{: .table}

Commit message:

Make the download page more "symmetric"
at least try.

Both the Stable and the Development versions now look similar. They
are contain similar artifact, do a degree ;-). The Stable versions
contains the tar ball built by `make dist` and the Development
versions contain a tar ball that is just a tared up source tree. Not
quite the same thing but labeled the same in this case.

Hope the introduction text makes the differences clear.

downloads/index.md, after:

---
title: Downloads
---

## Stable versions

The latest stable version of liblouis and liblouisutdml. The source
can be built with `configure && make && make install`. The windows
binary contains the library and all the tools and can be used as-is.

|Summary|File|
|---------|
|Liblouis (source)|[liblouis-3.6.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/download/v3.6.0/liblouis-3.6.0.tar.gz)|
|Liblouis (Windows build)|[liblouis-3.6.0-win32.zip](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/download/v3.6.0/liblouis-3.6.0-win32.zip)|
|Liblouisutdml (source)|[liblouisutdml-2.7.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml/archive/v2.7.0.tar.gz)|
{: .table}


## Development versions

The development versions of liblouis and liblouisutdml contain the
latest changes. The windows binary is pre-built and as of last night.
The source versions need to be built with `autogen.sh && configure &&
make && make install`, i.e. they require autoconf and automake in
addition to make and a C compiler.

|Summary|File|
|---------|
|Liblouis (source)|[liblouis.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/archive/master.tar.gz), [liblouis.zip](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/archive/master.zip)|
|Liblouis nightly build (Windows 32 bit)|[liblouis-win32-*.zip](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/tag/snapshot)|
|Liblouisutdml (source)|[Liblouisutdml.tar.gz](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml/archive/master.tar.gz)|
{: .table}

## Source code

Up-to-date versions can be checked out directly from the source code repositories.

|Summary|Source code repository|
|---------|
|Liblouis|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis.git>|
|Liblouisutdml|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml.git>|
{: .table}

## Old versions

Refer to the github releases pages for old versions of liblouis and liblouisutdml.

|Summary|Github releases page|
|---------|
|Liblouis|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases>|
|Liblouisutdml|<https://github.com/liblouis/liblouisutdml/releases>|
{: .table}
