---
layout: post
title: Release 2.3.0
---

This release contains support for many more languages than before (Swedish, Kurdish, Ethiopic, Serbian, many Indian languages). The search path for tables is now a list of paths. Finally there is the usual assortment of bug fixes.

h3. New features

h4. Multiple table search path

The environment variable LOUIS_TABLEPATH can now contain a list of paths (separated by commas) where liblouis should look for tables. This allows the user to keep local tables.

h4. New @--quiet@ option for @lou_checktable@

@lou_checktable@ writes to stderr even in the case of success. This can now be suppressed with the new option @--quiet@.

h4. New Swedish table

A new table for Swedish braille has been provided by Samuel Thibault.

h4. New table for Sorani (Kurdish)

A new table for Sorani (Kurdish) Braille has been donated by Peter Engström from Index Braille

h4. New table for Ethiopic

A new table for Ethiopic Braille has been donated by Tamru E. Belay PH.D from Adaptive Technology Center for the Blind (ATCB)

h4. New table for Serbian

A new table for Serbian Braille has been donated by Peter Engström from Index Braille

h3. Improved the documentation

The deprecated opcodes have been moved to a separate section

h3. Bug fixes
* Fixed a long standing bug with an infinite loop in the table compiler

h3. Braille Table Improvements
* Improvements to the Chinese braille table
* Improvements to the Flemish Braille Math Code tables
* Improvements to the Dutch Braille tables
* Improvements to the Spanish Braille tables.
* Fixes for the uncontracted French 6 and 8 dot tables
* Improved support for Italian 8 dot
* Improvements to the Generic Arabic Grade 1 table


