---
title: Liblouis Release 2.6.1
category: Liblouis
---

This release focuses on table and documentation improvements. The
documentation has been restructured to cater to people starting with
writing Braille tables. End users will see improvements to Braille for
Danish, Dutch, Hungarian, Irish and UK English.

* Will be replaced with the ToC
{:toc}

## New features

### New Braille tables

-   New grade 1 and grade 2 Gaeilge tables implementing the 2014 UIB
    standard. Including tests, thanks to Ronan McGuirk, Mesar Hameed.

## Braille table improvements

-   Updates and correction to Hungarian braille tables, thanks to Hammer
    Attila.
-   Correction to English UK grade 2 braille tables and new tests,
    thanks to Paul Wood, Mesar Hameed
-   Vastly improved Danish tables thanks to Bue Vester-Andersen
    -   back-translation, both in 6 dots grade 2 and 8 dots grade 2.
    -   Better handling of dash, slash, and other punctuation within words
        in 8 dots grade 2.
-   New table for Dutch (Netherlands) thanks to Henri Apperloo from CBB

## Bug fixes

-   fix a compiler warning in the logging code. Thanks Peter Lundblad
    for reporting it and Michael Whapples for fixing the problem.

## Documentation updates

-   The documentation has been restructured to be more beginner friendly
    and a short introduction to translation table writing has been
    added. Thanks to Joseph Lee and Christian Egli

## Other changes

-   When compiling with mingw or cygwin resulting dll is `liblouis.dll`.
-   `runHarness.py`: add new output format, compact output mode suitable
    for grepping.

## Backwards incompatible changes

-   Deleted `ga.ctb` now superseded by `ga-g1.utb` and `ga.g2.ctb`.
-   `Nl-Nl-g1.utb` has been removed. It is superseded by `nl-NL-g1.ctb`.
-   `nl-be-g1.utb` has been removed. It is superseded by `nl-BE-g1.ctb`.
