---
title: Liblouis Release 2.6.4
category: Liblouis
---

This is a minor release in terms of features. But in terms of test coverage and stability it is a vast improvement over previous versions of Liblouis. The new YAML based test suite contains more than a million of validated translations. Every change in Liblouis is tested against this corpus ensuring the change doesn't break anything.

* Will be replaced with the ToC
{:toc}

## New features

-   YAML based harness tests. Harness tests can now be written in simple YAML notation and they are integrated with the normal `make check` command. They can be used for both ucs2 and ucs4 and no Python is required. Thanks to Christian Egli.

## Bug fixes

-   Use a separate gnulib instance for the library and the tools. Use the strndup module to avoid build problems on windows.
-   Fix a problem with the nocross opcode when used in combination with the opcodes nocont and compbrl, thanks to Bue Vester-Andersen.
-   Fix a problem with the decoding of the harness test files. Thanks to Bert Frees.
-   Fix numerous problems in the way braille indicators are handled. There is now a safe version of the checkAttr function which makes sure that no attributes are checked beyond the boundaries of the currentInput. This fixes the random behavior with tests where the emphasis extends to the end of the input string. Thanks to Christian Egli.

## Other changes

-   if found use texi2any to build the documentation, thanks to Martin Michlmayr.
-   Fix permissions of Korean tables, thanks to Peter Lundblad.
-   Update the windows build instructions, thanks to Bue Vester-Andersen.

## Braille table improvements

-   Improvements to Hungarian, thanks to Attila Hammer
-   Improvements to Hungarian 8 dot and Serbian grade 1, thanks to Zvonimir Stanecic

# Next release

The next release will be published on November 30 2015, so please keep up the excellent work and keep those improvements coming.
