---
title: Liblouis Release 3.2.0
category: Liblouis
---

Aside from the usual improvements to Braille tables this release focuses on improving the internal infrastructure. Numerous bugs have been fixed, the CI infrastructure also checks mingw builds now and MSVC compatibility has been massively improved. For a detailed list of all the changes refer to [the list of closed issues](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/milestone/10?closed=1).


* Will be replaced with the ToC
{:toc}


## Bug fixes
-   Fix `capsnocont` opcode. Also mark capital letters with capsletter symbol when `capsnocont` is defined but no `begcapsword` indicator is defined. Thanks to Bue Vester-Andersen.
-   Fix the `syllable` opcode. It had been broken under some circumstances since 3.0. Thanks to Bert Frees and Christian Egli.


## Other changes
-   Fix building of Python bindings when cross-compiling. Thanks to Chris Brannon
-   `lou_checkyaml` is now only installed if libyaml is available. Thanks to Christian Egli
-   Major internal changes to improve MSVC compatibility. Thanks to Davy Kager
-   Enhance documentation on usage of display tables in particular in conjunction with Unicode dot patterns. Thanks to Bert Frees.


## Braille table improvements
-   Improvements to the Swedish 8-dots table (`se-se.ctb`) thanks to Kevin Derome
-   Improvements to the Simplified-Chinese Braille table thanks to Roshanson
-   Fixes for the International Phonetic Alphabet Braille table thanks to Ludovic Oger
-   Added more Unicode symbols (fractions and not equal) to the UEB tables. Thanks to Paul Wood and James Bowden.
-   Fixes to UEB grade 2 (`en-ueb-g2.ctb`) thanks to Mike Gray.
-   Vastly improved Danish tables thanks to Bue Vester-Andersen.
    -   New literary tables for 6 dots, mainly for embossing (no back-translation).
    -   Improved back-translation in 6 dots tables, all grades.
    -   New support for many Unicode characters in all 6 dots tables.
    -   Strengthened internal tests to prevent breaking of tables due to changes in the code.
    -   Fixed 8 dots tables which were broken in the previous version.
-   New Braille tables for Sinhala script thanks to Ashoka Bandula Weerawardhana.
-   New Hungarian grade 2 Braille table thanks to Attila Hammer.
-   Improvements to UEB in particular to symbols specified mostly on the Appendix 3 (Symbols List) from the Rules of Unified English Braille Second Edition 2013 document thanks to Victor Montalvão.
-   Improvements to Persian 8 dot computer Braille table thanks to Mohammadreza Rashad.


## Backwards incompatible changes
-   The old Greek table `gr-gr-g1.utb` is gone. Use `el.ctb` instead
-   The doctests are gone. They have been superseded by the YAML tests.


## New, renamed or removed tables
### New
-   `sin.cti`
-   `sin.utb`
-   `hu-hu-g2.ctb`
-   `da-dk-6miscChars.cti`
-   `da-dk-g16-lit.ctb`
-   `da-dk-g26-lit.ctb`
-   `da-dk-g26l-lit.ctb`

### Renamed
-   `gr-gr-g1.utb` (removed and replaced by el.ctb)

### Removed
-   `da-chardefs6.cti`
-   `da-dk-common6.uti`
-   `da-dk-g26-patches.cti`
-   `da-dk-g2core.cti`
-   `da-dk-nocaps.uti`

# Next release

The next release will be published on September 4, 2017 so please keep up
the excellent work and keep those improvements coming.

